feat(serverless): update concepts (#4150)
scaleway/docs-content: faq/serverless-containers.mdx

productIcon: ContainersProductIcon
---

> ## What is serverless computing and how does it differ from traditional cloud hosting?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is serverless computing, and how does it differ from traditional cloud hosting?
```

> Serverless computing is a cloud execution model where the cloud provider dynamically manages the allocation of compute resources. Unlike traditional hosting models, you don’t need to provision, scale, or maintain servers. Instead, you focus solely on writing and deploying your code, and the infrastructure scales automatically to meet demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless computing is a cloud execution model where the cloud provider dynamically manages the allocation of compute resources. Unlike traditional hosting models, you do not need to provision, scale, or maintain servers. Instead, you focus solely on writing and deploying your code, and the infrastructure scales automatically to meet demand.
```

> ## Why consider using Serverless Containers, Functions or Jobs for my projects?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why consider using Serverless Containers, Functions, or Jobs for my projects?
```

> These services allow you to build highly scalable, event-driven, and pay-as-you-go solutions. Serverless Containers and Functions help you create applications and microservices without worrying about server management, while Serverless Jobs let you run large-scale, parallel batch processing tasks efficiently. This can lead to faster development cycles, reduced operational overhead, and cost savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These services allow you to build highly scalable, event-driven, and pay-as-you-go solutions. Serverless Containers and Functions help you create applications and microservices without worrying about server management, while Serverless Jobs lets you run large-scale, parallel batch-processing tasks efficiently. This can lead to faster development cycles, reduced operational overhead, and cost savings.
```

## Can I run any application on Serverless Containers?

Yes. Because Serverless Containers supports any containerized application, you can choose the language, runtime, and framework that best suits your needs. As long as it can run in a container and respond to HTTP requests, Serverless Containers can host it.

## What are the cost benefits of using serverless services like Serverless Containers?

> With serverless, you only pay for the compute resources you actually use. There are no upfront provisioning costs or paying for idle capacity. When your application traffic is low, the cost scales down, and when traffic spikes, the platform automatically scales up, ensuring you never overpay for unused resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With serverless, you only pay for the computing resources you use. There are no upfront provisioning costs or paying for idle capacity. When your application traffic is low, the cost scales down, and when traffic spikes, the platform automatically scales up, ensuring you never overpay for unused resources.
```

## Does updates of Serverless Containers can cause downtime?

No, when deploying a new version of your Serverless Container generates a **rolling update**. This means that a new version of the service is gradually
rolled out to your users without downtime. Here is how it works:

* When a new version of your container is deployed, the platform automatically starts routing traffic to the new version incrementally, while still serving requests from the old version until the new one is fully deployed.

> * Once the new version is successfully running, we gradually shifts all traffic to it, ensuring zero downtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once the new version is successfully running, we gradually shift all traffic to it, ensuring zero downtime.
```

* The old version is decommissioned once the new version is fully serving traffic.

> This process ensures a seamless update experience, minimizing disruption to users during deployments. If needed, you can also manage traffic splitting between versions during the update process, allowing you to test new versions with a subset of traffic before fully migrating to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process ensures a seamless update experience, minimizing user disruption during deployments. If needed, you can also manage traffic splitting between versions during the update process, allowing you to test new versions with a subset of traffic before fully migrating to it.
```

> ## Can I update Serverless Container ressources (vCPU and RAM) at any time?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Can I update Serverless Container resources (vCPU and RAM) at any time?
```

> Yes, Serverless Containers ressources can be changed at any time without causing downtime, see previous question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, Serverless Containers resources can be changed at any time without causing downtime, see previous question.
```

## How does scaling work in these serverless services?

Scaling in Serverless Containers and Serverless Functions is handled automatically by the platform. When demand increases—more requests or events—the platform spins up additional instances to handle the load. When demand decreases, instances spin down. This ensures optimal performance without manual intervention.

## How do I integrate my serverless solutions with other Scaleway services?

> Integration is straightforward. Serverless Functions and Containers can be triggered by events from Queues, SQS and SNS and can easily communicate with services like Managed databases or Serverless databases. Serverless Jobs can pull data from Object Storage or output processed results into a database. With managed connectors, APIs, and built-in integrations, linking to the broader Scaleway ecosystem is seamless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration is straightforward. Serverless Functions and Containers can be triggered by events from Queues, SQS, and SNS and can easily communicate with services like Managed databases or Serverless databases. Serverless Jobs can pull data from Object Storage or output processed results into a database. With managed connectors, APIs, and built-in integrations, linking to the broader Scaleway ecosystem is seamless.
```

## Why does my container have an instance running after deployment, even with min-scale 0?

Currently, a new container instance will always start after each deployment, even if there is no traffic and the minimum
scale is set to 0. This behavior is not configurable at this time.

> ## How can I store data in my Serverless ressource?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How can I store data in my Serverless resource?
```

> Serverless ressources are by default [stateless](/serverless/containers/concepts/#stateless), local storage is ephemeral.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless resources are by default [stateless](/serverless/containers/concepts/#stateless), local storage is ephemeral.
```

> In different use cases like saving results of analysis, exporting data etc... it can be important to save data. Serverless ressources can be connected to ressources from the Scaleway ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In different use cases like saving results of analysis, exporting data etc... it can be important to save data. Serverless resources can be connected to resources from the Scaleway ecosystem.
```

### Databases

* **Serverless Databases**: Go full serverless and take the complexity out of PostgreSQL database operations.
* **Managed MySQL / PostgreSQL**: Ensure scalability of your infrastructure and storage with our new generation of Managed Databases designed to scale on-demand according to your needs.
* **Managed Database for Redis®**: Fully managed Redis®* in seconds.
* **Managed MongoDB®**: Get the best of MongoDB® and Scaleway in one database.

### Storage

> * **Object storage**: Multi-AZ resilient object storage service ensuring high availability for your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Object Storage**: Multi-AZ resilient Object Storage service ensuring high availability for your data.
```

* **Scaleway Glacier**: Our outstanding Cold Storage class to secure long-term object storage. Ideal for deep archived data.

<Message type="tip">
Explore all Scaleway products on the console and select the right product for your use case.

> Some products are not listed but for example, on specific use cases Secret Manager can help you to store informations that requires versionning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some products are not listed but for example, on specific use cases Secret Manager can help you to store informations that requires versioning.
```
